       Press Release



                                             Hinduja National Power Corporation Limited
                                                                          January 05, 2024

     Facilities/Instruments                                Amount (₹ crore)                                Rating1            Rating Action
                                                                7,125.95
     Long-term bank facilities                                                                        CARE A-; Stable          Reaffirmed
                                                         (Reduced from 8,024.95)
     Long-term bank facilities                                      -                                           -              Withdrawn
Details of instruments/facilities in Annexure-1.


Rationale and key rating drivers
The reaffirmation of rating assigned to the long-term bank facilities of Hinduja National Power Corporation Limited (HNPCL)
continues to derive strength from the financial flexibility of Machen Holdings SA (MHSA, the ultimate holding entity of HNPCL and
the support provider) evidenced as satisfactory cover i.e. 4.30x in the form of market value of investments indirectly held in
various listed companies vis-à-vis the combined debt. Apart from this, the rating also takes cognisance of HNPCL being part of its
financially resourceful Hinduja group, which has reputed stature and well-established management track record. The rating
continues to favourably factor in the promoter support in the form of undertaking towards meeting financial obligations as well
as demonstrated support in the form of regular infusion of loans/ deposits to assist its operations and debt repayment.
Furthermore, the rating continues to derive comfort from HNPCL’s low sales risk and long-term revenue visibility due to its power
purchase agreement (PPA) for entire capacity at a tariff determined by the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission
(APERC) which ensures fixed return, HNPCL’s long-term fuel supply agreement (FSA) and improvement in plant load factor (PLF)
during FY23 (refers to the period from April 01 to March 31) and H1FY24 (refers to April 01 to September 30). The improvement
in liquidity profile of the company characterized by sizable collection from its off-taker during FY23 and H1FY24, enhancement in
working capital limit and creation of debt service reserve account (DSRA) equivalent of one quarter of debt servicing adds strength
to the rating.
The rating strengths are, however, tempered by the partial recovery of the claimed capital cost leading to lower-than-previously
envisaged annual capacity charge (AFC). HNPCL’s review petition for reconsidering its tariff had been dismissed by APERC in June
2023. The credit profile of the off-takers is weak and HNPCL has elongated receivables period. The rating is also sensitive to
HNPCL’s impending capital expenditure for meeting environmental guidelines. CARE Ratings Limited (CARE Ratings) expects that
the group will continue to provide need-based financial support to HNPCL till stabilisation of its operations and improvement in
the financial profile. Moreover, CARE Ratings would also continue to monitor the adherence to the stipulations by HNPCL under
one-time restructuring (OTR) scheme implemented on June 25, 2021.
CARE Ratings has withdrawn the outstanding rating on the long-term bank facilities in respect to Funded Interest Term Loan – 2
(FITL -2) with immediate effect, as the company has entirely repaid the rated amount and there is no outstanding as on date.




Rating sensitivities: Factors likely to lead to rating actions
Positive factors
• Higher-than-envisaged liquidation of regulatory assets translating into improvement in the financial risk profile.
• Improvement in the credit profile of counterparties leading to traction in collection period to less than 90 days.

Negative factors
• Significant deterioration in the credit profile of the promoter or dilution in its support philosophy towards HNPCL.
• Substantial decline in the market value of investments to debt coverage of the holdcos/sub-holdcos below 3.5x on a sustained
   basis.
• Unfavourable regulatory outcome adversely impacting the cash accruals of the company.

Analytical approach: Standalone, while factoring linkages with MHSA, the ultimate holding company of the group owning
91.33% interest in HNPCL through various sub hold-cos including Hinduja Energy (India) Limited.

Outlook: Stable
Operational risk is likely to remain moderate due to regulatory uncertainty leading to partial recovery of claimed capital cost,
offset by existence of long term PPA and FSA. This is expected to limit the improvement in its financial risk profile in the medium
term. However, HNPCL is likely to benefit from the operational and financial linkages being part of the Hinduja group.



1
    Complete definition of the ratings assigned are available at www.careedge.in and other CARE Ratings Ltd.’s publications


            1                                                                                                                  CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



Detailed description of the key rating drivers
Key strengths
Long-term power off-take arrangement for a period of 25 years acknowledged by APERC
By virtue of its PPA (valid for 25 years from the COD of Unit-II (i.e., April 30, 2016) as approved by APERC), HNPCL has long-
term revenue visibility for its entire capacity of 1,040 MW. The cost-plus nature of determination of tariff ensures recovery of cost
at normative parameters along with earning of fixed return. Actual fuel cost shall be pass-through for determination of energy
charges as per APERC regulations. AFC (as determined by APERC) is recoverable fully upon achievement of normative plant
availability factor (NAPAF) of 85%.

FSA with Mahanadi Coalfields Limited (MCL)
HNPCL has fuel supply agreement with MCL with annual contracted quantity (ACQ) of 4.624 million tonne per annum (MTPA).
While the plant is in proximity to two well-developed ports (Gangavaram Port and Vizag Port), it has plans to set up railway siding.
Estimated capex to be incurred is ₹166 crore. CARE Ratings expects the same to be funded in a debt-equity ratio of 70-30.
Commissioning of the same will reduce the landed cost of coal and improve the plant’s competitiveness.

Improvement in operational performance
The beneficiaries had stopped scheduling power from HNPCL’s plant since August 2020, and the same resumed only post the
Hon'ble Supreme Court's judgement in February 2022. PLF has improved to 53% in FY23 (PY: 3%) and 64% during H1FY24.
Plant availability factor (PAF) continued to remain above normative during these periods ensuring full recovery of capacity charge.
However, the company’s station heat rate and auxiliary consumption has been inferior to the normative level set by APERC.
HNPCL has raised invoices for part loading compensation, which will offset the losses due to part loading.

Part of a reputed and resourceful promoter group with proven financial support in the past
HNPCL belongs to the Hinduja Group, which is one of the largest diversified groups in the world with direct presence in 38
countries and activities spanning across 100 countries. The group has presence across various sectors, viz., automotive, banking
and finance, energy & chemicals, power, healthcare, information technology, real estate and media and entertainment amongst
others. MHSA is the ultimate holding company of HNPCL. MHSA has majority stake in Hinduja Automotive Limited – United
Kingdom (HAL-UK, the holding company of Ashok Leyland Limited [ALL, rated ‘CARE AA; Stable/ CARE A1+’]). ALL, the flagship
company of Hinduja group, is a prominent manufacturer of commercial vehicles in India. Furthermore, MHSA also has majority
stake in Hinduja Capital Limited – Mauritius (HCL-M, the holding company of GOCL Corporation Limited (GOCL)). GOCL’s multi-
division businesses include energetics, commercial explosives and realty. The management has articulated that there is adequate
financial flexibility of MHSA due to fungibility of cashflows between MHSA and its subsidiaries, i.e., HAL-UK, HCL-M and the Hinduja
Energy holdcos. The market value of the investments in listed instruments of these sub-holdcos vis-à-vis their external debt
outstanding as on December 01, 2023 is 4.30x, which is moderate. CARE Ratings has observed moderation in the market value
of these holdings vis a vis the total debt in the energy hold-cos/sub-hold-cos since last review, albeit slightly better than threshold
level. CARE Ratings expects that the group will continue to provide need based financial support to HNPCL given the existing
headroom available in leveraging these holdcos.

Promoter supporter towards meeting HNPCL’s financial obligations
MHSA and Hinduja Energy (India) Limited (HEIL), both as promoters of HNPCL have extended Promoter Support Undertaking to
the lenders for the primary project loan and working capital facilities towards timely debt servicing. Major covenants of the
agreement are as under:
• Debt service requirement: The promoters have undertaken that, until the determination of the regular tariff, the promoters
shall, from time to time, provide additional funds to the borrower in the event there is any shortfall in the cash flows of the
borrower so that the borrower is able to meet the debt service requirements, without any delay.
• Repayment of excess loan amounts: The promoters shall provide additional funds to the borrower in the amount equivalent
to the excess loan amount upon determination of the target loan amount without any recourse to the borrower, project assets
and/or lenders to enable the borrower to prepay the loans to the lenders to the extent of the excess loan amount without any
delay.
• Initial DSRA: The promoters have confirmed that in the event there is any shortfall in the cash flows of the borrower to build
up the initial debt service reserve as required in terms of the financing documents, the promoters shall provide additional funds
to meet such shortfall.
The promoter’s support undertaking continues till the final settlement of dues from the project lenders. The promoters of the
company have been regularly infusing funds in HNPCL by way of inter corporate deposit (ICD)/loan.
Going forward, timely extension of support from promoter group will continue to be a key rating monitorable.



       2                                                                                                         CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



Key weaknesses
Approved capital cost is lower than prayed; tightening of few other normative parameters
The significant difference (around ₹ 2,000 crore) in capital cost prayed by HNPCL and the actual cost allowed by APERC vide its
August’22 order has material bearing on project viability. The interim tariff for previous period were considered as final. Moreover,
APERC has also allowed stricter station heat rate, auxiliary consumption, specific fuel oil consumption which may lead to under-
recovery in energy charge. The same is expected to offset to some extent with the part-load compensation permitted under the
PPA. HNPCL had filed review petition with APERC with justification for relaxation which was dismissed in June 2023. Thereafter,
HNCPL filed an appeal in Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) to review the tariff order received from APERC. In case there
is delay in relaxation in various norms and HNPCL continue to bill the off-taker basis existing tariff, a large cash gap may arise
during FY24 and FY25. Hence timely resolution of the issue favourably, along with realisation of receivables is to be seen.

Leveraged capital structure
HNPCL’s term debt has been increasing year on year on account of moratoriums availed by the company in line with the RBI
guidelines and stood at ₹ 9,410 crore (including ₹ 2263 crore advances from group companies) as on March 31, 2023 (PY: ₹
8,696 crore including ₹ 1985 crore advances from group companies). Total debt/PBILDT (excluding regulatory income) remained
elevated at 8.34x in FY23 (PY: 6.32x). Despite weaker cash accruals, the plant did not require financial support from the parent
for several months, as cited by the management. However, full recognition of capital cost and full pass-through of variable cost
will be critical for the plant’s operation going forward, and thus remain a rating monitorable.


High counterparty credit risk yet, collection efficiency has improved
The credit profile of AP discoms is weak characterised by high leverage and stretched payable and collection period. Average
collection period has however decreased from 474 days in FY22 to 290 days in FY23. The monthly collections from off-takers
have picked up post the commencement of scheduling of power by the off-takers and the collection efficiency stood at 90%
during FY23 and 100% in Q1FY24.

Liquidity: Adequate
The liquidity profile of the company has been supported by timely infusion of funds from the promoters and access to fund-based
working capital limits. The lead working capital lender has appraised enhancement of working capital limit by ₹ 650 cr to ₹ 1940
crore and has already disbursed its share of ₹ 230 cr to the company during Oct’23. The company has created DSRA equivalent
to one quarter of debt servicing during Q1FY24 (refers to the period from April 01 to June 30). The average utilization of the fund
based working capital limit during FY23 was 77%. The company had a cash and bank balance of ~₹ 320 crore as on June 30,
2023.

Applicable criteria
Definition of Default
Factoring Linkages Parent Sub JV Group
Rating Outlook and Rating Watch
Infrastructure Sector Ratings
Thermal Power
Financial Ratios – Non financial Sector
Liquidity Analysis of Non-financial sector entities
Withdrawal Policy

About the company and industry

Industry classification
 Macro economic Indicator               Sector                 Industry                      Basic Industry
 Utilities                              Power                  Power                         Power Generation
HNPCL is part of Hinduja Group. The company operates coal-based sub-critical thermal power project of 1,040 MW (2 x 520) in
Village Palavalasa, Dist. Vishakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. The company is promoted by HEIL (holds 51.05 % stake), Hinduja
Energy (Mauritius) Limited (holds 40.27% stake), Machen Development Corporation (holds 4.84% stake) and balance is held by
Steag Energy Services GmbH.




       3                                                                                                       CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release




 Brief Financials (₹ crore)*                                                        FY22 (A)                            FY23 (A)
 Total operating income                                                               811                                 2,391
 PBILDT                                                                               621                                 1,051
 PAT                                                                                  291                                 -325
 Overall gearing (times)                                                              2.66                                3.20
 Interest coverage (times)                                                            0.77                                1.15
A: Audited UA: Unaudited; NA: Not available; Note: ‘the above results are latest financial results available’; *analytically adjusted as per CARE
Ratings’ methodology

Status of non-cooperation with previous CRA: Not applicable
Any other information: Not applicable
Rating history for last three years: Please refer Annexure-2
Covenants of rated instrument / facility: Detailed explanation of covenants of the rated instruments/facilities is given in
Annexure-3
Complexity level of various instruments rated: Annexure-4
Lender details: Annexure-5
Annexure-1: Details of instruments/facilities
 Name of the                      Date of        Coupon             Maturity            Size of the Issue         Rating Assigned along
                        ISIN
 Instrument                      Issuance       Rate (%)             Date                   (₹ crore)              with Rating Outlook
 Fund-based -
                                       -              -                  -                    1290.00                  CARE A-; Stable
 LT-Cash Credit
 Fund-based -
                                       -              -           March 2039                  244.94                   CARE A-; Stable
 LT-Term Loan
 Fund-based -
                                       -              -           March 2039                  4439.95                  CARE A-; Stable
 LT-Term Loan
 Fund-based -
                                       -              -           March 2025                  900.00                   CARE A-; Stable
 LT-Term Loan
 Fund-based -
                                       -              -         September 2023                  0.00                      Withdrawn
 LT-Term Loan
 Fund-based -
                                       -              -          February 2023                  0.00                      Withdrawn
 LT-Term Loan
 Non-fund-based
 - LT-Bank                             -              -                  -                    251.06                   CARE A-; Stable
 Guarantee

Annexure-2: Rating history for the last three years
                                                Current Ratings                                     Rating History
                                                                                Date(s)        Date(s)
                                                                                                          Date(s)               Date(s)
             Name of the                                                        and            and
   Sr.                                            Amount                                                  and                   and
             Instrument/Bank                                                    Rating(s)      Rating(s)
   No.                                Type*       Outstanding        Rating                               Rating(s)             Rating(s)
             Facilities                                                         assigned       assigned
                                                  (₹ crore)                                               assigned in           assigned in
                                                                                in 2023-       in 2022-
                                                                                                          2021-2022             2020-2021
                                                                                2024           2023
                                                                                                                                1)CARE A-
                                                                                               1)CARE A-                        (CW with
                                                                                               ; Stable                         Negative
                                                                                               (06-Jan-        1)CARE A-        Implications)
                                                                     CARE                      23)             (CW with         (30-Mar-21)
             Fund-based - LT-
     1                                     LT        1290.00         A-;        -                              Negative
             Cash Credit
                                                                     Stable                    2)CARE A-       Implications)    2)CARE A-
                                                                                               (RWN)           (07-Oct-21)      (CW with
                                                                                               (27-Dec-                         Negative
                                                                                               22)                              Implications)
                                                                                                                                (22-Oct-20)




         4                                                                                                               CARE Ratings Ltd.
Press Release



                                      Current Ratings                             Rating History
                                                                 Date(s)     Date(s)
                                                                                        Date(s)          Date(s)
          Name of the                                            and         and
Sr.                                    Amount                                           and              and
          Instrument/Bank                                        Rating(s)   Rating(s)
No.                           Type*    Outstanding      Rating                          Rating(s)        Rating(s)
          Facilities                                             assigned    assigned
                                       (₹ crore)                                        assigned in      assigned in
                                                                 in 2023-    in 2022-
                                                                                        2021-2022        2020-2021
                                                                 2024        2023
                                                                                                         1)CARE A-
                                                                             1)CARE A-                   (CW with
                                                                             ; Stable                    Negative
                                                                             (06-Jan-    1)CARE A-       Implications)
                                                        CARE                 23)         (CW with        (30-Mar-21)
          Fund-based - LT-
 2                             LT         244.94        A-;      -                       Negative
          Term Loan
                                                        Stable               2)CARE A-   Implications)   2)CARE A-
                                                                             (RWN)       (07-Oct-21)     (CW with
                                                                             (27-Dec-                    Negative
                                                                             22)                         Implications)
                                                                                                         (22-Oct-20)
                                                                                                         1)CARE A-
                                                                             1)CARE A-                   (CW with
                                                                             ; Stable                    Negative
                                                                             (06-Jan-    1)CARE A-       Implications)
                                                        CARE                 23)         (CW with        (30-Mar-21)
          Fund-based - LT-
 3                             LT         4439.95       A-;      -                       Negative
          Term Loan
                                                        Stable               2)CARE A-   Implications)   2)CARE A-
                                                                             (RWN)       (07-Oct-21)     (CW with
                                                                             (27-Dec-                    Negative
                                                                             22)                         Implications)
                                                                                                         (22-Oct-20)
                                                                                                         1)CARE A-
                                                                             1)CARE A-                   (CW with
                                                                             ; Stable                    Negative
                                                                             (06-Jan-    1)CARE A-       Implications)
                                                        CARE                 23)         (CW with        (30-Mar-21)
          Fund-based - LT-
 4                             LT         900.00        A-;      -                       Negative
          Term Loan
                                                        Stable               2)CARE A-   Implications)   2)CARE A-
                                                                             (RWN)       (07-Oct-21)     (CW with
                                                                             (27-Dec-                    Negative
                                                                             22)                         Implications)
                                                                                                         (22-Oct-20)
                                                                                                         1)CARE A-
                                                                             1)CARE A-                   (CW with
                                                                             ; Stable                    Negative
                                                                             (06-Jan-    1)CARE A-       Implications)
                                                        CARE                 23)         (CW with        (30-Mar-21)
          Non-fund-based -
 5                             LT         251.06        A-;      -                       Negative
          LT-Bank Guarantee
                                                        Stable               2)CARE A-   Implications)   2)CARE A-
                                                                             (RWN)       (07-Oct-21)     (CW with
                                                                             (27-Dec-                    Negative
                                                                             22)                         Implications)
                                                                                                         (22-Oct-20)
                                                                             1)CARE A-
                                                                             ; Stable
          Fund-based - LT-
 6                             LT            -          -        -           (06-Jan-    -               -
          Term Loan
                                                                             23)



      5                                                                                           CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



                                            Current Ratings                               Rating History
                                                                        Date(s)     Date(s)
                                                                                                Date(s)       Date(s)
             Name of the                                                and         and
   Sr.                                        Amount                                            and           and
             Instrument/Bank                                            Rating(s)   Rating(s)
   No.                             Type*      Outstanding      Rating                           Rating(s)     Rating(s)
             Facilities                                                 assigned    assigned
                                              (₹ crore)                                         assigned in   assigned in
                                                                        in 2023-    in 2022-
                                                                                                2021-2022     2020-2021
                                                                        2024        2023
                                                                                    2)CARE A-
                                                                                    (RWN)
                                                                                    (27-Dec-
                                                                                    22)
                                                                                    1)CARE A-
                                                                                    ; Stable
                                                                                    (06-Jan-
                                                                                    23)
             Fund-based - LT-
    7                                 LT             -         -        -                       -             -
             Term Loan
                                                                                    2)CARE A-
                                                                                    (RWN)
                                                                                    (27-Dec-
                                                                                    22)
*Long term/Short term.


Annexure-3: Detailed explanation of covenants of the rated instruments/facilities: Not applicable

Annexure-4: Complexity level of the various instruments rated
  Sr. No.      Name of the Instrument                                                         Complexity Level
     1         Fund-based - LT-Cash Credit                                                        Simple
     2         Fund-based - LT-Term Loan                                                          Simple
     3         Non-fund-based - LT-Bank Guarantee                                                 Simple

Annexure-5: Lender details
 To view the lender wise details of bank facilities please click here


Note on the complexity levels of the rated instruments: CARE Ratings has classified instruments rated by it on the basis
of complexity. Investors/market intermediaries/regulators or others are welcome to write to care@careedge.in for any
clarifications.




         6                                                                                             CARE Ratings Ltd.
    Press Release



                                                                             Contact us

 Media Contact                                                                         Analytical Contacts

 Mradul Mishra                                                                         Rajashree Murkute
 Director                                                                              Senior Director
 CARE Ratings Limited                                                                  CARE Ratings Limited
 Phone: +91-22-6754 3596                                                               Phone: +91-22-6837 4474
 E-mail: mradul.mishra@careedge.in                                                     E-mail: rajashree.murkute@careedge.in

 Relationship Contact                                                                  Agnimitra Kar
                                                                                       Associate Director
 Saikat Roy                                                                            CARE Ratings Limited
 Senior Director                                                                       Phone: 91-120-445-2019
 CARE Ratings Limited                                                                  E-mail: agnimitra.kar@careedge.in
 Phone: 91 22 6754 3404
 E-mail: saikat.roy@careedge.in                                                        Sweta Lodha
                                                                                       Analyst
                                                                                       CARE Ratings Limited
                                                                                       E-mail: sweta.lodha@careedge.in




About us:
Established in 1993, CARE Ratings is one of the leading credit rating agencies in India. Registered under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India, it has been acknowledged as an External Credit Assessment Institution by the RBI. With an equitable
position in the Indian capital market, CARE Ratings provides a wide array of credit rating services that help corporates raise capital
and enable investors to make informed decisions. With an established track record of rating companies over almost three decades,
CARE Ratings follows a robust and transparent rating process that leverages its domain and analytical expertise, backed by the
methodologies congruent with the international best practices. CARE Ratings has played a pivotal role in developing bank debt
and capital market instruments, including commercial papers, corporate bonds and debentures, and structured credit.

Disclaimer:
The ratings issued by CARE Ratings are opinions on the likelihood of timely payment of the obligations under the rated instrument and are not recommendations to
sanction, renew, disburse, or recall the concerned bank facilities or to buy, sell, or hold any security. These ratings do not convey suitability or price for the investor.
The agency does not constitute an audit on the rated entity. CARE Ratings has based its ratings/outlook based on information obtained from reliable and credible
sources. CARE Ratings does not, however, guarantee the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of any information and is not responsible for any errors or omissions
and the results obtained from the use of such information. Most entities whose bank facilities/instruments are rated by CARE Ratings have paid a credit rating fee,
based on the amount and type of bank facilities/instruments. CARE Ratings or its subsidiaries/associates may also be involved with other commercial transactions with
the entity. In case of partnership/proprietary concerns, the rating/outlook assigned by CARE Ratings is, inter-alia, based on the capital deployed by the
partners/proprietors and the current financial strength of the firm. The ratings/outlook may change in case of withdrawal of capital, or the unsecured loans brought
in by the partners/proprietors in addition to the financial performance and other relevant factors. CARE Ratings is not responsible for any errors and states that it has
no financial liability whatsoever to the users of the ratings of CARE Ratings. The ratings of CARE Ratings do not factor in any rating-related trigger clauses as per the
terms of the facilities/instruments, which may involve acceleration of payments in case of rating downgrades. However, if any such clauses are introduced and
triggered, the ratings may see volatility and sharp downgrades.


                                     For the detailed Rationale Report and subscription information,
                                                      please visit www.careedge.in




          7                                                                                                                                     CARE Ratings Ltd.
